RHDEVDOCS-3306: Document running image build tasks as unprivileged builds (#44733)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-running-as-root-user-namespace.adoc

[id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']
= Running as root in a user namespace

> Running as a user namespace means that your container runs as root (user id 0) but as a user on the host. OpenShift uses CRI-O as its container engine. CRI-O features a workload feature to be able to let the pod know that it wants to run user namespaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run <something> in a user namespace, your container runs as root (user id 0) but has user privileges on the host. {product-title} uses CRI-O as its container runtime interface. CRI-O has a workload feature to run a pod in the user namespace.
```
In this suggestion, I've applied the following sources or principles:
- Official definition of CRI-O: dehttps://cri-o.io/#:~:text=What%20is%20CRI%2DO%3F,as%20the%20runtime%20for%20kubernetes.
- Minimalism.

> When you run <something> in a user namespace, your container runs as root (user id 0) but has user privileges on the host. {product-title} uses https://cri-o.io/#:~:text=What%20is%20CRI%2DO%3F,as%20the%20runtime%20for%20kubernetes[CRI-O] as its container runtime interface. CRI-O has a workload feature to run a pod in the user namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run <something> in a user namespace, your container runs as root (user id 0) but has user privileges on the host. {product-title} uses CRI-O as its container runtime interface. CRI-O has a workload feature to run a pod in the user namespace.
```
Replace <something> with the appropriate noun.

> To run as a user in a namespace with Openshift Pipelines you need to be able to pass the annotations expected by CRIO to get the pods running  user namespaced. You can directly edit the buildah ClusterTask with `oc edit clustertask buildah` to add this to all users or export the ClusterTask as a task to a specific namespace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as as task to that namespace. 
```
- Instructions for using the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command are covered in `modules/op-release-notes-1-0.adoc` release notes file. @sounix000 or you  should be copying that information into a regular doc topic.
- Important: This suggestion is only my best guess at your intended meaning, and might be incorrect. You MUST have an SME re-review this content.

Reviewer: IMPORTANT: This ^^^ looks like the introduction that precedes a procedure. You must still cover this information in one or more procedures.

Reviewer: In case you need to create additional procedure modules, remember to create separate modules for each independent procedure.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure
```

Reviewer: Convert the following instructions into numbered steps.

> With the latest `tkn create` feature you can automate it.
> 
> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ oc new-project test
> $ tkn task create --from=buildah
> $ oc edit task buildah
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `tkn create` feature to automate <finish this phrase>.
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project test
$ tkn task create --from=buildah
$ oc edit task buildah
----
```

Reviewer: Replace items inside angle brackets, like `<finish this phrase>`, with appropriate values.

You can now further add annotations to the task.

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
annotations:
    io.kubernetes.cri-o.userns-mode: "auto"
    io.openshift.builder: "true"

> ----

Reviewer: Precede the step with `. Optional:` if it is an optional step.

> You will notice your OpenShift Pipeline will now run your buildah container as a root user. However behind the scenes CRI-O will run your container as a user in the host namespace.
> 
> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that OpenShift Pipeline runs your buildah container as a root user.
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
```

----

> # get the nodename where the buildah pod is with "oc get pod -o wide"

Reviewer: Make this a separate step.

$ oc debug nodes/nodename
$ chroot /host
$ lsns -t user

> ----

Reviewer: Replace angle-bracketed content with appropriate content.

> ----

Reviewer: I'm aware you're working to meet a deadline. You could create this sample output code block (lines 44-48) as a follow-up task in a separate PR.

> [id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']

Reviewer: Every file must begin with its `:_content-type:` Please refer to the mod docs standard for more information.

> [id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']
```

= Running as root in a user namespace

When you run a command in a user namespace, your container runs as root (user id 0) but has user privileges on the host. {product-title} uses CRI-O as its container runtime interface. CRI-O has a workload feature to run a pod in the user namespace.

> With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as as task to that namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRI-O expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as as task to that namespace.
```

> With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as as task to that namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as a task to that namespace.
```

.Procedure

. Use `tkn create` feature to automate <finish this phrase>.
+

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: Per the OCP doc guidlines, for multiple CLI commands, you must include only one command per code block: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#code-blocks-command-syntax-and-example-output. So this code block and all the other ones in this PR need to be broken down so that each command uses its own code block.

----
$ oc new-project test
$ tkn task create --from=buildah
$ oc edit task buildah
----

. Add annotations to the task.
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
annotations:
    io.kubernetes.cri-o.userns-mode: "auto"
    io.openshift.builder: "true"
----

> . To get the nodename where the buidah pod is, use the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To get the nodename where the buildah pod is, use the following command.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']
= Running as root in a user namespace

> When you run a command in a user namespace, your container runs as root (user id 0) but has user privileges on the host. {product-title} uses CRI-O as its container runtime interface. CRI-O has a workload feature to run a pod in the user namespace.

Reviewer 3: Okay, but what is the point of this? That is, how does this help the user namespace? I don't know the value of running root in a user namespace. I think a sentence at the end of this first paragraph that states the value of this would help clarity.

> With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as a task to that namespace.

Reviewer 3: Seems to me like this paragraph could be a procedure. You're giving the user multiple actions to take to when using pipelines to run pods in the user namespace. 

I think this content would be more appropriate as procedure steps since it is very user action driven.

Reviewer 3: Something link:

Use Pipelines to run pods in the user namespace to <state value of running pods in user namespace>. 

_Prerequisites_

- Pass the annotations that CRIO expects.

_Procedure_

1. Use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task.
2. Add the annotations for all users. 
3. Export the cluster task as a task to the namepsace.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 3: It seems to me that his procedure is to use pipeines to run the buildah container as a root user. Should the name of this doc reflect that?

Reviewer: @HarshCasper, if Jake agrees with the above suggestion, you can mark this thread as resolved.

> . Use the `tkn create` feature to automate the creation of a cluster task.

Author: Its because the Netlify is not building the PRs currently as far as I understand.

> . Use the `tkn create` feature to automate the creation of a cluster task.

Reviewer 4: @HarshCasper please follow the procedure here https://docs.google.com/document/u/2/d/e/2PACX-1vRLKWEMHQ3DZroxZKfTu3XcrSdREr6D3oSSayBanEprXhkA2Ciyr2SQuDTYI4aIKUiOPPIQMHgjHeh8/pub#h.vrlifsbvvjd8 to add a manual preview for docs review

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project test
----
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ tkn task create --from=buildah
----
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc edit task buildah
----

. Add annotations to the task.
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
annotations:
    io.kubernetes.cri-o.userns-mode: "auto"
    io.openshift.builder: "true"
----

> . To get the nodename where the buildah pod is, use the following command.

Reviewer 3: Make every step an action, not an infinitive phrase:

`Get the nodename where the buildah pod is.`

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
oc get pod -o wide
----

> . Verify that {pipelines-shortname} runs your buildah container as a root user.

Reviewer 3: Verb agreement: Verify that Pipelines run your buildah container as a root user.`

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc debug nodes/nodename
----
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ chroot /host
----
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ lsns -t user
----
[NOTE]

> ====

Author: Its because the Netlify is not building the PRs currently as far as I understand.

> ====

Reviewer: In this case, although the product name contains a plural, Pipelines, the product is singular.  I believe this should remain as it is now.

> :_content-type: PROCEDURE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/running-workloads-and-buildah-as-user-namespaces-on-openshift-pipelines.adoc
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
```

[id='op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}']
= Running as root in a user namespace

> With {pipelines-shortname}, to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that CRIO expects. To add these annotations for all users, you use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the `buildah` cluster task. Or, to add the annotations to a specific namespace, you export the cluster task as a task to that namespace.

Reviewer 4: Please define CRIO here and add (CRIO) in parenthesis so it's clear what this means

Use {pipelines-shortname} to run pods in the user namespace.

> .Prerequisites

Reviewer 4: Is there an updated preview for these docs? The old one generated by Netlify is from April and it's difficult to review this as just a PR given all the open comments

> * Pass the annotations that CRIO expects.

Reviewer: I'm unfamiliar with this process. It seems like pas
```suggestion
* You have passed the annotations that CRIO expects.
```
Maybe add an xref to the `.Additional resources` heading (in the Assembly file, just below the include statement for this module) that links to a topic on how to pass the annotations that CRIO expects...

Reviewer 4: Note, there still must be a list of prerequisites for procedures, so the correct prereqs should be established and added here instead

> .Prerequisites
> 
> * Pass the annotations that CRIO expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Procedure

. Use the `oc edit clustertask buildah` command to edit the buildah cluster task.

> . Add the annotations for all users.

Reviewer: Do you think users might need an example of what adding the annotations looks like?

Reviewer: The main concern I have is whether lines 18 (Add the annotations for all users)  and 20 (Export the cluster task as a task to the namepsace) should be separate procedure modules. I'm checking with @abrennan89 to see what she thinks.

Reviewer: > Something I noticed trying to check this, it doesn't look like the module has a list of assemblies it's included in, FYI

I suggested [the same in this comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/44733/files#r897035726). I think @HarshCasper is fixing items and marking them as resolved, but hasn't pushed his latest updates to this PR yet.

Author: Need SME input here.

Reviewer 5: @HarshCasper is the need for input about which command to use to edit the global task? as @abrennan89 suggested if the user want to modify the task for every users on clusters (and have the rights for it) she/he can edit the clustertasks directly i.e: `oc edit clustertasks buildah`

> . Export the cluster task as a task to the namepsace.

Reviewer: Do you think users might need an example of how to do this?

Author: Need SME input here.

Reviewer: @HarshCasper please implement the next two suggestions and mark this one as resolved. Thanks.

. Use the `tkn create` feature to automate the creation of a cluster task.
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ oc new-project test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc new-project <projectname>
```
Please use angle brackets around replaceable values in commands and suggest what the value contains.

----
+

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 4: Curious where this formatting comes from, I haven't seen it used before? In my experience it's more just like `[source,terminal]`?

----

> $ tkn task create --from=buildah

Reviewer: It looks like `tkn task create` isn't documented. This is the only mention of `tkn` and `create` is here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/tkn_cli/op-tkn-reference.html#resource-create
Please create a separate Jira bug report to document it.

Author: Keeping this open to remind me about opening a Jira for this.

Reviewer: @HarshCasper, I created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-4184. Please close this comment as resolved.

----
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc edit task buildah
----

> . Add annotations to the task.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Add annotations to the task:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]

> ----
> annotations:
>     io.kubernetes.cri-o.userns-mode: "auto"
>     io.openshift.builder: "true"
> ----

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
----
...
annotations:
    io.kubernetes.cri-o.userns-mode: "auto"
    io.openshift.builder: "true"
...
----
```

Use `...` to show if something is an excerpt of a YAML file rather than a full YAML file

> . Get the nodename where the buildah pod is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Verification

. Get the nodename where the buildah pod is.
```
- It is an excellent practice to include verification steps, which it looks like you're doing here. If so, just add the standard `.Verification` heading and convert the first step into a lead-in sentence. WDYT?

Reviewer: ...and convert each of the following commands into individual steps.

> +
> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> oc get pod -o wide
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the name of the node where the buidah container is running.
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
oc get pod -o wide
----
```
Annotate the reason for giving each command.

> . Verify that {pipelines-shortname} run your buildah container as a root user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that {pipelines-shortname} runs your buildah container as a root user.
```
I apologize for the reversal. I know Jake suggested plural `run` earlier. However, despite its name, _Pipelines_ is a single product. Therefore, please use `runs` instead.

Reviewer 4: I think throughout if `buildah` is the name of a specific container / task it should have backticks

> . Verify that {pipelines-shortname} run your buildah container as a root user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Verification

Verify that {pipelines-shortname} run your buildah container as a root user:
```
It's excellent that you've created a verification section like this one. Let's use this as a lead-in sentence.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Run debugging pod on the node where the buildah pod is running. 
+
```

[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ oc debug nodes/nodename

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc debug nodes/<nodename>
```
Please enclose user-replaceable values with angle brackets.

----

> +
> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ chroot /host
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. <Harsh - please explain the purpose of the following chroot command here.>
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ chroot /host
----
```
Again, if you have decided to make this a Verification procedure, make this a separate step and explain the reason for the command.

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ lsns -t user

Reviewer: Although you marked [this previous suggestion as resolved](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/44733/files#r855515197),
please explain in the topic how this command, which lists the user namespaces, helps the user verify that {pipelines-shortname} is running their buildah container as a root user? Otherwise, without and explanation, the user might not be able to complete the task this topic proposes to help them with.

Reviewer: It might help to ask the SME to for help with this question.

> +
> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ lsns -t user
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. List the user namespaces. <Harsh, please tell the user what to look for in the list of user namespaces.>
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ lsns -t user
----

```

Reviewer: Please replace `<Harsh, please tell the user what to look for in the list of user namespaces.>` with an explanation.

[NOTE]
====
Although {pipelines-shortname} runs your buildah container as a root user, CRI-O runs the container as a user in the host namespace.
====

> [INFO]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
```
Please use one of [the four supported admonition types](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#admonitions).

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/running-workloads-and-buildah-as-user-namespaces-on-openshift-pipelines.adoc
:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="op-running-as-root-user-namespace_{context}"]
= Running as root in a user namespace

If you are using {pipelines-shortname} to run pods in the user namespace, you must pass the annotations that the CRI-O container engine expects. You can add these annotations for all users, or for a specific namespace.

Use {pipelines-shortname} to run pods in the user namespace.

.Procedure

. Edit the `buildah` cluster task:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit clustertask buildah
----

. Add the annotations for all users.

. Export the cluster task as a task to the namepsace.

> . Create a new project:

Reviewer: In response to Chmouel's comment, above.
```suggestion
.. Create a new project:
```
